# Priority Queues

If a PI has chosen to buy into Unity, the following priority queue options are avilable:  

1. **Preemption Model** In this model, your nodes will be available in one of the "-preempt" queues, such as "cpu-preempt" or "gpu-preempt", depending on the type. General users have to explicitly specify a partition parameter to run jobs on the preempt queues. There will also be a unique priority queue created for your PI group (or multiple PI groups). The priority queue can only be used by the authorized PI groups. If a node is full and a priority user submits a job in the unique PI queue, the scheduler will immediately suspend the non-priority job running on the node, and preserve the non-priority job state in RAM. The priority job will therefore immediately start. Since the non-priority job state is saved in RAM, the non-priority job's RAM allocation will **not** be released. In order to prevent the RAM allocation from blocking a node, non-priority users are restricted to a fraction of the RAM on the system such that there is always sufficient RAM for the priority users. This model allows for priority users to have instant access to the buy-in hardware on-demand.
1. **Shared Model** In this model, your nodes will be available in the general queues, such as "cpu" or "gpu" (but not "cpu-long" or "gpu-long"), depending on the type, as well as a unique priority queue created for your PI group. The priority queue can only be used by the authorized PI groups. If a priority user wishes to submit a job to buy-in hardware and the buy-in hardware is currently full, the priority job will be queued pending space with higher priority than non-priority jobs on that hardware. This model can result in a delay using your buy-in hardware since non-priority jobs are not suspended like they are in model (1).