# Environment Modules #
Environment modules is how we are able to provide one installation of a piece of software to an entire cluster and its user base. Modules also allow us to have infinite versions of a single piece of software without conflicts. A **module** is a piece of software that the user can load in his/her shell, and then have access to that software. The software is installed elsewhere, but is not available until the user loads it. Unity uses lmod for managing modules.

## How it Works ##
You can skip this part if you don't care about how it works, but it may allow you to gain a better understanding for future reference.  
Environment modules work by modifying the user's environment. The user's environment has a number of variables set. To see them all, just run `env` in the cli if you are curious. Those variables dictate what the user has access to. For instance, consider the `$PATH` environment variable. This variable is what determines where to find executable binaries. For example, when you run the command `ls` to list the directory, `ls` is simply an executable that lies somewhere on the system. In this case, `/bin`. Ordinarily, to run the `ls` executable, you would need to reference it directly, ie `/bin/ls`. To simplify this, linux adds certain directories to the `$PATH` environment variable. Any binaries/executable contained within any directories defined in `$PATH` can be executed from anywhere directly, ie `ls`. As such, `/bin`, `/usr/bin`, `/usr/local/bin`, etc. are all members of the `$PATH` variable.

Modulefiles work by manipulating these variables. For example, consider `python`, a binary that comes with almost all linux distributions these days. Usually, running `python` will execute the python that is installed on the system. But if we wanted to create a module which loads a different python, we would add the location of the different python into the environment variables, at the top of the list. Now, when you run `python`, the first entry in `$PATH` directs you to the module you loaded, and it loads that, even though a system `python` exists later on. The important thing is that the program you want to use is first in the variable.

To see physical examples of modulefiles, please visit [this page](modules/self.md).